
--- Page 1 ---
Qualifications:
d Bachelor’s/Master’s degree in Computer Science Engineering or Equivalent.
Sample Job Descriptions
#1 Software Engineer at Amazon
Prime Video is changing the traditional television and movie industry with a vast library of high-
quality media and reliable digital delivery. Our services are engineered for high availability,
maximum reach, and cost savings that we can pass on to customers. We enable the world to
watch the video instantly, across hundreds of devices, whether on the road or from the comfort of
a living room sofa. Today, we deliver movies and TV shows to computers, gaming consoles,
tablets, smartphones, and smart TVs. We operate in more than 200 countries, and we aspire to
grow — a lot.
Want to join a team working on a high-impact project with a direct and significant impact on the
Prime Video business? Want to join a high visibility project still in the beginning phases with a
lot of opportunities to innovate, design, and implement solutions that will have a direct impact
on increasing customer selection, and reducing operating costs which in turn translates to lower
prices for Amazon customers? In the Catalog Services team, we are writing highly scalable
distributed services from the ground up to search and build intelligent relationships (hierarchical,
duplicate, etc.) which will have an exponential impact on the way customers experience Prime
Video titles. We work closely with many teams in the Prime Video supply chain as the
relationship space affects the complete video supply chain.
We are looking for talented software development engineers who are eager to shine by designing
and developing world-class solutions. The engineering candidate wants to have ownership of a
domain to deliver meaningful results to the customers. As an organization, we work hard to not only
deliver results but invest in each team member’s career and skillsets goals. Additionally, we
encourage the use of new technologies when the technology provides a clear advantage.
Successful candidates for this position will have a strong background in designing and developing
world-class microservices in Java, C++, C#, Python, NodeJS, or Ruby. Equally important to these
specific candidate skills are excellently written and verbal communication skills both with the team
and external teams, the ability to multitask, the ability to translate business requirements to
engineering requirements, the ability to adapt quickly to new environments, and using creativity to
solve difficult problems in a world-class engineering team.
Keka for the love of employee experience

--- Page 2 ---
Come be a part of the greenfield initiative to create an impact in a fast-growing area within Amazon.
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS
i Programming experience with at least one modern language such as Java, C++, or C#
including object-oriented design.[
i Bachelor’s degree in computer science or a related field.[
i 1+ years’ experience writing production code of increasing complexity.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
i Understanding of computer science fundamentals, including algorithms, complexity analysis, data
structures, problem-solving, and object-oriented analysis and design.[
i Working knowledge of programming languages other than Java, C, or C++ (e.g. Ruby).[
i Working knowledge of databases, service-oriented architectures, and highly-scaled distributed
systems.[
i Excellent written and verbal communication.[
i Experience with Amazon Web Services.[
i Experience with mission-critical, 24×7 systems experience with high throughput cloud systems.[
i Relentless customer focus.[
i Excellent analytical skills.[
i Experience implementing and consuming large scale web services.[
i Masters degree in Computer Science or equivalent.
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer – Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender
Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age. Pursuant to the Los Angeles Fair Chance Ordinance, we will
consider for employment qualified applicants with arrest and conviction records.
Source: amazon.jobs
#2 Software Engineer Thomson Reuters
Job Description
Thomson Reuters is the world’s leading source of intelligent information for businesses and
professionals. We combine industry expertise with innovative technology to deliver critical information
to leading decision-makers in the legal and tax & accounting markets, powered by the world’s most
trusted news organization. More information about Thomson Reuters and its financial performance
can be found on www.ThomsonReuters.com.
Keka for the love of employee experience
