
--- Page 1 ---
Quoc Nguyen
832-361 6400 ▪ Rosenberg, TX ▪
fbisci123@gmail.com (mailto:fbisci123@gmail.com)
▪ LinkedIn ▪ ▪
Personal Website (https://quocnguyenphd.github.io/) Leetcode (https://leetcode.com/fbisci/) Github (https://github.com/QuocNguyenPhD)
EDUCATION
University of Houston, Houston, Texas
Doctor Of Philosophy In Applied Mathematics Aug 2023- Present
Specialized in Machine Learning, Statistics and Computational Mathematics
•
University of Houston, Houston, Texas
Bachelor Of Science In Mathematics with minor in Economic Dec 2018- Dec 2023
Cumulative GPA: 3.8
PERSONAL PROJECTS
Predict Financial Crisis: Training on past data and testing current data to classified trend to financial crash.
•
Tool: MATLAB
IBM Quantum Computing Challenge: Complete the IBM quantum challenge by create simulation of chemical
•
reaction on IBM quantum computing platform. Tool: Python, IBM facility
Modeling Pandemic Growth: Modified SIR model to simulate the grow of COVID. Tool: Python
•
Customer Behavior Analysis: Performed Predictive analytic on behavior of customer behavior using data from
•
Kaggle for better strategy of service customer. Tool: R, data from Kaggle
EXPERIENCE
University Of Houston, Houston, Texas Dec 2019 – Present
Teaching Assistant
Lecturing, mentoring and grading mathematics at the university
•
Sen Laboratory, Houston, Texas Sep 2021 – Mar 2022
Data Analyst
Create a statistical model to help finding pattern in data of protein conformational angle
•
Determined an unknown protein structure from an X-ray crystallography electron density map using a
•
mathematical model (Quantum Mechanic). Resulting a publication in national library of medicine on
conformation analysis.
Baylor College Of Medicine, Houston, Texas Apr 2022 – Oct 2022
Undergraduate Researcher (Computational Neuroscience)
Creating Metric measures the effectiveness of clustering networks that perform better than betweenness centrality
•
for partial membership of nodes in a network. Finding a way to reverse unlabeled network to a stochastic block
model.
Apply the metric measure to study the brain structure of a fruit fly.
•
HONORS AND AWARDS
Blanche B. Grover Scholar Awards, Presidential
Dean’s List: 2018-2022, Academic Excellence Scholarship,
Fellowship, The Graduate Tuition Fellowship, Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship.
ACTIVITIES
Putnam Competition Club, Mathematical Modeling Club, Hackathon Club.
SKILLS
• Fluent in Vietnamese
• Programing Language (Over 5000 lines): Python, R
• Programing Language (Over 1000 lines): C++, Matlab, SQL, Latex, Linux Shell
• Other application: Excel, Tableau, Power BI
CERTIFICATES
Data Visualization With Paraview And Tableau, Machine Learning, Essential Of SQL, Machine Learning With Python,
Principle Of Data Management, Scientific Computing With Python.
