
--- Page 1 ---
WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS – ALAMO
Job Description
Job Title: Staff Accountant II
Department: Fiscal
Reports to: Accounting Manager
FLSA Status: Exempt
Approval Date: December 14, 2001
Review/Revision Date: February 13, 2019
Salary Range: $47,064 ‐ $70,050
Funding: Grant
Duration: Indefinite
ORGANIZATION AND PURPOSE
Workforce Solutions Alamo is a nonprofit organization that serves as the leadership and governing body for
the region's workforce development system. Workforce Solutions Alamo is responsible for over $100 million
dollar budget consisting in local, state, and federal funds. Our mission is Working to Strengthen the Alamo
regional economy by growing and connecting talent pipelines to employers. We are guided by the core values
of Integrity, Excellence, Innovation, Collaboration, and Accountability.
Workforce Solutions Alamo is governed by a 25‐member Board of Directors that reflects the diverse
constituencies of the regional community: business, economic development, education, labor, community
organizations, and government. Our service area includes the counties of Atascosa, Bandera, Bexar, Comal,
Frio, Gillespie, Guadalupe, Karnes, Kendall, Kerr, Medina, McMullen, and Wilson.
SUMMARY:
Performs complex accounting work. Work involves preparing or supervising the preparation of financial
statements, records, documents, or reports. Will specialize in a phase of accounts payable, such as federal
funds accounting, property and equipment control, cost, or bond servicing. Requires limited supervision and
exercises discretion and independent judgment in matters of significance as related to the general business
operations of the agency. Performs other relevant duties as assigned.
ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Accounting Function
*Prepares financial statements with schedules and exhibits.
*Prepares complex technical reports such as those dealing with estimates, expenditure data and budget
items.
*Prepares TWC monthly reports, related worksheets, and cost allocations.
*Prepares status analyses of funds and expenditures, including WSA Board reports.
*Prepares various reports, such as those dealing with federal grants, regulations, and statistics, as required.
*Maintains adequate records of expenditures, funds, appropriations, and expenses, as well as revenue
collected and deposited.
*Prepares TWC cash draw downs.
*denotes essential job function

--- Page 2 ---
Assists in planning procedures and regulations to control the disbursement of allocated funds, preparing
letters of instruction, manual revisions, and related forms as necessary.
*Prepares budgets for submission to TWC and Department of Labor.
*Maintains accounting records on expenditures and revenue collected, the preparation of journal
entries.
*Preparation of 1099 Forms
*Maintains fixed asset records and is responsible for related audit schedules.
*Performs fixed asset reconciliation.
*Monitors and reviews bank statements and prepares bank reconciliations.
Contractor, Special Grant, and Accounts Payable Support
*Reviews and aids in the planning of contractor and special grant budgets.
*Processes contractor and special grant expenditures and reimbursements.
*Processes vendor and overhead invoices.
*Reviews and monitors contractor monthly cost summaries, budget amendments, and closeout
packages.
*Prepares invoices due to WSA for facility use by contractors and other agencies.
Other Functions
*Works on special contracts and projects as assigned.
May attend committee and contractor meetings.
SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: None
QUALIFICATIONS To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each essential duty
satisfactorily. The requirements listed below are representative of the knowledge, skill, and/or ability
required. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the
essential functions.
EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE: Will possess a bachelor’s degree in Accounting, Finance, or Business
Administration from an accredited four‐year college or university, with a minimum of 12 semester hours in
accounting and 3‐5 years of full‐time experience in accounting. Two years of full‐time experience in
accounting or auditing may be substituted for each 30 semester hours of the required education. A license
as a CPA in Texas will satisfy the experience requirements.
SKILLS and ABILITIES
Working knowledge of Windows: Excel, Access, and Word and principles and procedures, budget
controls, accounts payable/receivable, and purchasing methods and procedures.
Ability to perform complex accounting transactions, to interpret laws and regulations, and to
*denotes essential job function

--- Page 3 ---
interpret and apply complex accounting theory.
OTHER QUALIFICATIONS
Must be legally eligible to work in the United States.
Must have proof of a valid driver’s license and auto insurance.
PHYSICAL DEMANDS The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by
an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be
made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. While performing the duties
of this job, the employee is required to stand, walk, sit, use hands for finger coordination, reach with arms
and hands, drive a vehicle, or provide own transportation, stoop, kneel, and talk and hear.
WORK ENVIRONMENT The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an
employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may
be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. The noise level in this
environment is moderate. Occasional travel is required.
A position utilizing this classification will be designated as security sensitive according to Vernon's Texas
Codes Annotated, Labor Code, Section 301.042.
Career Development: This position could advance to Accountant III.
Equal opportunity employer/program. Auxiliary aids and services are available upon request to
individuals with disabilities.
*denotes essential job function
