
--- Page 1 ---
THE OFFICE OF PROCUREMENT REGULATION (OPR)
JOB DESCRIPTION
Job Title ACCOUNTS CLERK
Reports to Head Finance
Supervises N/A
Mandate
To provide clerical/administrative and accounting support to Head Finance by
undertaking routine and non- routine functions. To ensure timely and accurate
recording, filing and retrieval of information relating to the Finance Department.
KEY FUNCTIONS
1. Assist in the day to day operations of the Finance department.
2. To prepare payments to staff, Board Members and suppliers.
3. To reconcile and maintain General Ledger accounts and other schedules.
4. To assist in the preparation of reports as required.
KEY DUTIES
1. Preparation of payroll and related matters to ensure timely payment of wages, salaries, allowances
and Board fees.
2. Annual preparation of TD4’s in accordance with the Laws of Trinidad and Tobago.
3. Preparation and submission of documents for payment of statutory and non- statutory deductions
such as NIS, Health Surcharge, PAYE, VAT, salary deductions in accordance with established
requirements and deadlines.
4. Preparation, reconciliation, maintenance and analysis of balance sheet schedules, income and
expenditure schedules and any other schedules as required.
5. Accountable for the maintenance, disbursement and replenishment of the petty cash float,
ensuring the petty cash tin is secured at all times.
6. Responsible for checking, coding and collating documents for data entry. Posting of transactions
such as invoices, purchase orders, receipts, payments, journals on a timely basis.
7. Preparation, entry and posting of general ledger journals.
8. Preparation of deposits as and when necessary.
9. Review invoices for payment, preparation of cheques, documents for wire transfer payments and
drafts ensuring all payment amounts and records are accurate.
10. Reconciliation of suppliers accounts on a monthly basis at minimum.
11. To undertake clerical and general administrative function in the department such as, filing of
invoices, cheque payment vouchers, receipts, journals, preparation of letters and memorandum,
scheduling of meetings.
12. Understand and adhere to financial regulations, standards, legislation, policies and procedures of
the OPR.
13. Perform other related duties as required by the job function.
KEY AUTHORITIES
Authorized to:
1. Prepare, analyse, reconcile and maintain General Ledger accounts.

--- Page 2 ---
2. Prepare payroll and related documents.
3. Prepare payments to suppliers on a timely basis, submit documents for approval and disburse
payments immediately upon signing.
PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS
1. Timeliness, accuracy and completeness of reconciliations.
2. Timeliness and accuracy of payments, data entry and petty cash management.
3. Maintenance of the filing system and records.
4. Compliance with policies and procedures for the company.
Requirements
The incumbent should possess sound knowledge of accounting
o
fundamentals, principles, practices and procedures, a basic understanding
and Qualifications
of the institutional, regulatory and governmental framework in which the
OPR operates, computer skills, working knowledge of the OPR
financial/accounting policies, communication skills.
Attention to detail, the ability to produce results with a high level of
o
accuracy, a willingness to learn and use initiatives, organisational and
interpersonal skills are critical requirements for this position. The
incumbent must be able to plan, organise and prioritise work and maintain
confidentiality concerning financial data.
Minimum of CAT level III or ACCA level I, BSc Accounting with at least 3
o
years accounting experience and 2 years in payroll processing and working
knowledge of an accounting and payroll software.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT – Separate document.
